---
title: 'Edgecase 2022: Kubernetes at the edge'
author: Tibo Beijen
date: 2022-05-31T08:00:00+01:00
url: /2022/05/31/edgecase-2022
categories:
  - articles
tags:
  - Conference
  - Kubernetes
  - EdgeComputing
  - K3S
  - ArgoCD
description: "Short recap of Edgecase 2022 conference that took place at may 24th in Utrecht NL."
thumbnail: img/edgecase.jpg

---
## Edgecase 2022: Kubernetes at the edge

Finally, after the pandemic abruptly changed every meetup and conference into a video conference, in-person events are possible again! The first conference I attended since early 2020 was [Edgecase 2022](https://www.fullstaq.com/edgecase-2022), organized by [Fullstaq](https://www.fullstaq.com/) and focusing on running Kubernetes at the edge.

This is not directly what [we](https://www.nu.nl) are doing or intend on doing, since we use AWS. Nevertheless, underlying techniques might still be applicable. Furthermore, it never hurts to look at things from a different perspective and it's great to interact with peers that are equally enthusiast about the technology they use.

Some of the characteristics of running 'at the edge' include:

* Slow or flaky network connectivity with centralised or cloud-based systems
* Low compute/memory specs
* Need to avoid having to transfer large amounts of data generated at the edge

I won't go over the individual talks but instead address some of the topics that stood out to me.

### ArgoCD

ArgoCD is a well-established name in the Kubernetes ecosystem. It's a tool that enables managing applications via GitOps.

Now GitOps is a bit of a buzzword that might mean different things to different people. My take, at the risk of cutting corners, is: "Adhering to best practices of Infra-as-Code, Config-as-Code and automation, leveraging the power of Git for collaboration and context (pull requests, history and commit messages)."

Within GitOps there's the push-based variant: Adding pipelines to Git that apply changes to the target environment. Another approach is pull-based GitOps: A component running _inside_ the target environment that continuously monitors the git repo and ensures the environment always reflect what's in git. This is what ArgoCD offers by running inside a cluster, or multiple clusters.

Some of the downsides of pipelines that ArgoCD remediates:

* Risk of actual state drifting gradually from git state. This depends greatly on the scope covered by pipeline, and access engineers (or systems) have to the infrastructure.
* No Git commits means no applying, means no reconciliation.
* Granting a CI/CD read/write access to the target environment is arguably harder than providing a system read-only access to a git repository.



### K3S


### LeafCloud



